As a young person, I was afflicted with a lot of confusion about what to value and how to live. Over time I embraced a few principles that made a great difference.

**Be useful. Solve problems.**

As a student, I used to worry a lot about how much I *enjoyed* my studies. There were many points in time when I felt deeply enamored about a topic or a subject only to find that my interest soon waned. As humans, we're wired to enjoy certain kinds of things. For example, there is an inherent joy in novelty - this is what I was picking up and interpreting as *passion* in those early days. It wasn't until I read Cal Newport's [*So Good They Can't Ignore You*](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1455509124/) that I fully cut through the illusion that following passion was an especially useful career-building strategy. Today I love the work that I do, but that has nothing inherently to do with the domain in which I work. It's because, through my work, I solve problems and create things that others find useful.

**Multiply your efforts by working with great people.**

It's possible to work very hard and achieve very little of substance. The context in which you work matters a lot. If you're isolated in your own bubble, you will be very limited in what you can achieve. The people around you are a potential multiplier on your efforts. This is why great entrepreneurs can achieve things that seem superhuman or impossible. They wield great leverage through people and capital. And what is more, this is a very good thing for many of the people who work for them too. Living on their own in the wilderness, they might produce enough to survive but not much more. Instead, by working for a great company, the things they produce are in turn used by their colleagues, and the total produced becomes more than the sum of the parts. You don't have to work for a great company to do useful work, but your work should still be embedded within some larger context or community.
